a joy to have these great hymns of the faith that remind us of great Bible truth.
And I hope that your heart and your mind has stayed upon Jehovah and you find that He is
able to do for you what no other could ever do for you.
And of course, as we would mention often as we think about the great songs of the faith
and the opportunity that we have to sing these great hymns and to be encouraged by them,
that we have the privilege of knowing the Lord.
I mentioned to somebody not long ago how encouraging it is that we have the opportunity to have
the Word of God.
You know, we'd be in the same amount of confusion and chaos that the rest of the world seems
to be in apart from having the Word of God.
And I'm so thankful that God has chosen to give us His precious book, the Bible.
It's interesting as we sang that song and you think about the truth in Isaiah 26, it's
not part of the message this morning, we'll get to Colossians in just a moment, but the
Bible says in verse number 3 of Isaiah 26,
Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on Thee, because he trusteth
in Thee.
Trust ye in the Lord forever, for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength.
What a wonderful truth from the Word of God, Isaiah 26, verses 3 and 4.
This morning we'll be in the book of Colossians.
If you have your Bible with you there, turn to the book of Colossians if you will.
Colossians chapter number 1, we'll be looking at verses 9 through 14.
I will acknowledge to you this at the very onset of the message that verses 13 and 14
are kind of transitional verses, I'll deal with them in the text of Scripture this morning,
and most likely we'll deal with them again next week as we get into the next section
of Colossians chapter number 1.
But I'm so thankful for this book and I'm thankful that we have the opportunity to study
this book together here in 2021.
This is our fourth message through the book of Colossians.
And you'll recall with me, I hope at least, that last week we focused upon the last four
words of verse number 3.
Verses 1-3, if you note those last four words, the Apostle Paul said,
"...praying always for you."
What a great statement that is.
What great encouragement the believers at Colossae must have received as they read those
words.
And we find that as we took note of the example of intercessory prayer, not only here in the
book of Colossians, but really throughout the New Testament.
We looked at a number of passages of Scripture last week and understood the importance of
intercessory prayer and how that the Apostle Paul was regularly communicating to those
that God would give him the opportunity to minister to, and he was communicating to them,
I'm praying for you.
And not only does he say he's praying for them, but we find, as we'll study this morning
in verses 9-14, often he communicates how he is praying for them.
Not only does Paul offer to those that he's ministered to the way in which he's praying
for them, but on a number of occasions we find that Paul himself is requesting that
the brethren would pray for him.
Thus we see in the New Testament the example of intercessory prayer.
We went through and looked at that, and we confirmed all that we understood about this
subject matter of intercessory prayer, and then we said this, that we need to purpose
in our lives to engage in intercessory prayer.
And as we begin to look at the challenge and we make that purpose, I hope that in the last
week from the message last Sunday morning that we've put these things into practice
in our lives, that we have understood the importance of intercessory prayer, that we
are going before the throne room of heaven before God Almighty on the behalf of our brothers
and sisters in Christ.
What a great privilege.
I said this near the end of the message last week, that intercessory prayer requires information
and commitment.
I made the statement a number of times over the years that prayer is work.
Prayer is hard work.
The devil doesn't want you to pray, the enemy doesn't want you to pray, but we understand
that God has called us to pray.
You know, it's interesting.
It's the only thing within the Word of God that God says to do without ceasing.
Pray without ceasing.
You see the significance and the importance that God has placed upon prayer, to be in
that spirit of prayer regularly in our lives, and as we would look at this prayer that the
Apostle Paul would make on the behalf of these believers in Colossae, we take note that he
had some information and he was committed.
By way of introduction, we understand that Paul knew some things.
Number one, the Apostle Paul knew that they were saved.
Remember, in verse number two, he said, to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ
Jesus, which are at Colossae.
So he's writing to believers, the book of Colossians is a book that was written to people
that were saved.
Thus, he does not pray for their salvation, they're already saved.
He understood they were saved.
He understood, look in verse five and six, as we continue to see how that he had this
information, this knowledge, he says, for the hope which is laid up for you in heaven,
whereof ye heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, which is come unto you,
as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit, notice, as it doth also in you, since
the day ye heard of it, and knew the grace of God in truth.
We find also in verses 13 and 14, and we'll get into those verses as we study the passage
this morning, but we see that he speaks about redemption in those verses of Scripture.
And so we understand that Paul had some information about these that he's ministering to, that
he's seeking to encourage through this letter.
Number one, he knew that they were saved.
Number two, he knew that they were instructed.
In verse number seven, remember, as he made comment about Epaphras, he says this in verse
number seven, as ye also learned of Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who was for you a
faithful minister of Christ.
Several weeks ago, as we looked at that passage of Scripture, we dealt with the fact that
these believers in Colossae, they had been discipled, they had been instructed, they
had been taught, and we also understood that there's some truth in the word of God that
would help us to be able to understand what makes a minister a faithful minister of Christ.
And as we examined those portions of Scripture, we concluded with confidence that this was
a church in which they were receiving instruction from the word of God.
But we also understand that Paul knew something else.
There's a third thing that the apostle Paul knew, and he knew that there were false teachers
that were active.
He knew that there were some false teachers that were active.
We'll get into it as we study the remainder of the book of Colossians here in this calendar
year.
But let me just make note of Colossians 2, in verse number eight, this morning, by way
of introduction, we find that the Bible says this, beware.
Now, any time you see a beware or a warning, I warn you in the word of God, we ought to
take note to that, and we ought to kind of perk up our ears.
I mean, we ought to be attentive and take note of all of the Scripture, because all
Scripture is profitable, but when a warning is being issued, we ought to pay closest attention
to that.
Notice what he says to these believers, beware, lest any man spoil you through philosophy
and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not
after Christ.
There's some specific things that are dealt with in the book of Colossians with regard
to false teachers, but we understand that Paul, as he is seeking to minister to these
believers in Colossae, he knew some things.
And remember, if I'm going to engage in intercessory prayer, I need to have a certain amount of
information.
What information did Paul have?
They were saved, they were taught, they were discipled, and there were false teachers that
were active.
And it will be interesting, as we study the prayer of Paul, that we will see how the information
that he had influenced the way in which he prayed.
I mentioned not only does it require information, but it also requires a commitment.
How do we know that Paul was committed to this ministry of intercessory prayer?
Well, remember the title for last week's lesson, Praying Always for You.
We see that at the end of verse number three in Colossians 1, and Paul is revealing to
the believers in Colossae that he is committed to this ministry of intercessory prayer.
He says, praying always for you.
Not only that, but I want you to take note in verse number nine, the Bible says, for
this cause we also, since the day we heard it, notice these words, do not cease to pray
for you.
You think Paul was committed to the ministry of intercessory prayer?
Absolutely.
I mean, as we took the opportunity last week to survey through a number of scriptures and
to deal with the example of intercessory prayer, we found how that he would make the
statement of, I give thanks without ceasing, I'm praying for you, and the way in which
he used the always, I'm praying for you always, and he talked to Timothy, and he said to Timothy
that I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day.
And here, as he's writing to these believers, he says, I'm praying always for you, and then
he says, I do not cease to pray for you.
He does not cease to pray.
take note in verse number nine that the word we is used obviously as you look at
verse number one Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God and
Timotheus our brother and so Paul and Timothy obviously Timothy was his son in
the faith and he's mentioning as he's writing this book about the prayers not
only that he is praying for them but also Timothy as he would use that word
we now as we look at this passage of scripture if you're taking notes I'd
give you this title this morning very simply Paul's prayer for the Colossians
Paul's prayer for the Colossians we'll look at Colossians 1 verses 9 through
14 and I would say this as we evaluate this passage of scripture as we kind of
dig in and look at the the the nuts and bolts if you will of the the prayer of
Paul for these believers in Colossae I hope that we would be encouraged and
strengthened but I also hope that we would evaluate our own prayer life in
light of the example in scripture as we look here in Colossians 1 even as you
look over the book of Ephesians in chapter 1 and chapter 3 as you look at
the prayers that Paul made mention to the believers in Ephesus and how he was
praying for them you will understand some very important aspects of prayer
and how our prayer lives should be modeled now as you look at the passage
of scripture we'll dig in number one if you're taking notes consider how Paul
prayed number one consider how Paul prayed in verses 9 through 11 we'll have
the privilege of being able to see how Paul prayed for these believers notice
in verse number 9 the Bible says this for this cause we also since the day we
heard it do not cease to pray for you and to desire that you might be filled
with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding that
you might walk worthy of the Lord and all-pleasing being fruitful in every
good work and increasing in the knowledge of God strengthened with all
might according to his glorious power and all patience and long-suffering with
joyfulness we'll get into the remainder of the passage here in just a moment but
as we really consider how Paul prayed immediately upon reading verse 9 10 in
the first half of verse number 11 you will immediately note that spiritual
growth was the main aspect and emphasis of the prayer of the Apostle Paul we
would understand that Paul is praying about the spiritual need of these
believers in Colossae oftentimes as we would seek to evaluate our own prayers
on the behalf of others we could ask ourselves this question are our prayers
is our prayer life mostly physical request or is it mostly spiritual
request that maybe we could say it this way are we praying more about the
temporal things or the spiritual things the reality is that we understand that
God has instructed us to pray about physical things in fact in James chapter
5 God very clearly said if any are sick let him pray and so I would never
suggest that it would be inappropriate for us to pray for physical needs we
ought to it is in obedience that we pray to God with regard to physical needs but
the reality is that we can't miss out on praying about the spiritual aspect do
you know that there are times in life when somebody may be dealing with a
physical situation they may be dealing with a period of adversity a time of
affliction if you will and they're in this manifold temptation this heaviness
this trial if you will and they're going through that and we could pray that it
would be removed we can pray that they'd be delivered but you know we all also be
praying that they would be developed spiritually through that no doubt in my
in my mind that God desires to teach us lessons and to grow us spiritually
through those things that we encounter in life as we begin to pray one for
another and we're praying for someone with regard to a physical need oh that
God would help us to not miss out on the opportunity to also pray about the
spiritual aspect of this God would you help them to learn that your grace is
sufficient would you help them to grow in grace and knowledge would you help
them to learn something about you in the midst of this storm in this trial that
they're currently going through that they would not learn any other way I've
often said throughout the years that there are some things that we can only
learn about God in the storms it's just the way it is God has a purpose in those
storms by the way we understand that biblically and it needs to shape our
prayer life that we pray not only about the physical but also about the
spiritual and we see immediately here in the text of Scripture that Paul's
emphasis in the main thrust or aspect of this prayer is one of spiritual growth I
would ask myself this question why is that why is it the case that the
Apostle Paul is is praying about this spiritual growth of these believers
will remember as we mentioned by way of introduction there were some things that
Paul knew some things that he understood he understood that they were they were
saved people and so guess what we need to pray for our brothers and sisters in
Christ that we would grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus
Christ we understand that it's important that we would pray for the spiritual
growth of of those within our church and that you as a parent of children
that are saved that you would pray for their spiritual growth that that they
would grow spiritually certainly were desirous to see our children grow
physically and emotionally and intellectually but all that we would not
fail to pray about their spiritual growth they would grow spiritually so he
knew they were saved but he also knew that there were some false teachers you
know what the best way is for us to combat false teaching is by knowing the
truth you know the people that are most vulnerable to the false teachers are the
ones that are immature spiritually and let me say this maturity spiritually is
not based upon our age it's not even based upon the number of years that
we've been saved remember as Paul was writing to the believers in Corinth he
said that he could not write to them as being spiritual but he had to write it
to them as being carnal they were babes in Christ he says this you don't need to
turn there but in 1st Corinthians chapter 3 in verse number 1 he says and
I brethren could not speak and do as unto spiritual but as unto carnal even
as unto babes in Christ now Paul had ministered in Corinth for an extensive
period of time those people had been trained and taught and discipled yet
they were carnal and Paul says I have to feed you with milk and not with meat for
hitherto you were not able to bear it neither yet now are ye able see we need
to pray for the spiritual growth the spiritual maturity of one another
because the false teachers are active today just as they were in the time in
which Paul was writing to the believers in Colossae we understand that as you
study the Word of God that God has given us the truth throughout the New
Testament about the false teachers that would be prevalent in fact Jude says
that they creep in they have crept in unawares is what it says in the book of
Jude we understand that Peter says this as he's ministering to those and
teaching them and admonishing them and encouraging them with regard to being
settled and being just mature in Christ he says there are false teachers just as
there were false prophets and so those believers could look back to the Old
Testament they could see the presence of false prophets throughout the Old
Testament you can do the same thing and you can read throughout the historical
books and the prophetical books of the Old Testament you can see the false
prophets that were active and Peter says in like manner there will be false
teachers there amongst us they they seek to to deceive I've often said that
they'll use our vocabulary but not our dictionary and how is it that we are
able to combat false teaching we must be settled and grounded in the Word of God
we must know with confidence with assurance what thus sayeth the Lord what
does God's Word say well this guy on YouTube has 2.5 million followers and
he's saying this and he's saying that and he's teaching this beware beware you
understand the right way isn't always the popular way amen the reality is that
we need to know what God says and I don't care how many followers somebody
has on some social media platform if they're not teaching what God's Word
says then they're not teaching what we ought to be allowing to enter into our
ears we need to know the Word of God so Paul says I'm praying for their
spiritual growth remember what we know and what Paul knew impacted how he
prayed that's why I mentioned last week about the importance of having
information if we're going to be engaged in intercessory prayer now let's look at
what he prays number one
He prays this, that they would know the will of God.
Notice in v. 9, He says,
for this cause we also since the day we heard it
do not cease to pray for you and to desire,
notice this, that you might be filled
with the knowledge of His will
in all wisdom and spiritual understanding.
Oh, what a blessing to know that the Apostle Paul
is praying for these believers in Colossae
and he's saying, I am praying
that you would know the will of God.
Remember, His will, the will of God,
is revealed in His word.
It is important, I know it's often been said
throughout the ages, that His will, the will of God,
will never contradict His word.
His will will never contradict His word.
Someone comes to me and says,
I believe it's God's will that I fill in the blank.
And I say, well, I'm pretty confident
that's not the will of God
because here's what God's word says.
You understand what I'm saying?
And so God's will will never contradict His word.
And so how is it that we now having
the whole canon of Scripture,
how is it that we begin to understand the will of God?
Well, we better get into the word of God.
And as we get into the word of God,
God reveals, if you will,
His general will for all believers.
His general will for all people
is that none would perish,
but that all would come to repentance.
We understand that there in 2 Peter 3,
in verse number nine,
the Lord is not slack concerning His promises.
Some men count slackness,
but as longsuffering to us,
we're not willing that any should perish,
but that all should come to repentance.
We understand that God's will for mankind
is that they would be saved.
We understand not only in 2 Peter 3,
in verse number nine,
but in 1 Timothy 2, in verse number four,
in verse number three says,
for this is good and acceptable
in the sight of God our Savior,
who will have all men to be saved
and to come unto the knowledge of the truth.
Jesus Christ, God in flesh,
left the throne room of heaven
to come to this sin-cursed world
to pay for the sin of mankind,
and He is not willing that any should perish.
Paul said this,
this is a faithful saying
and worthy of all acceptation
that Christ Jesus came into the world
to save sinners of whom I am chief.
Oh, praise the Lord.
God's general will.
All people to be saved,
but then we can think about His general will
for His people, for those that are saved,
for these believers in Colossae.
You understand that it's God's will
for you to attend church.
It's God's will for you to give to God.
It's God's will for you to serve Him.
It's God's will for you to share your faith.
Those are all things that are revealed
in the Word of God that are His will for your life.
Now you begin to understand
that there are people that come
and they want to know God's specific will in their lives.
What does God want me to do specifically?
Generally speaking, we understand there's some things
that God has revealed with regard to His will
for all of His children,
but then there's some specific things.
I would say this,
if you're not doing the general things
that are revealed in the Word of God
with regard to His will,
don't expect God to show you the specifics.
If you're not going to church faithfully,
if you're not giving to God,
if you're not serving God,
if you're not witnessing for God,
if you're not doing the things
that are generally revealed in this precious book
with regard to His will for His people,
why in the world would you think
that He is going to reveal to you
His specific will for your life?
No, no.
Do the will of God that you know
and seek God for the specific aspect
of His will for your life.
Let me use this passage as an example.
Acts chapter 16.
Hold your place here in the book of Colossians.
Go over to Acts chapter number 16, if you will.
Acts chapter number 16 reveals to us
the passage of Scripture
in which they're going to go on this missionary journey
and all that's taking place.
And it's interesting.
I would ask this question.
Is it God's will for us to preach the gospel?
Absolutely.
Is it God's will that we preach the gospel
to every creature?
Absolutely.
Go ye into all the world
and preach the gospel to every creature.
But here Paul is desiring to know specifically
where he is supposed to go to preach the gospel.
Verse number six of Acts 16.
Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia,
the region of Galatia,
and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost
to preach the word in Asia,
didn't God want them to hear?
Sure He did.
But this wasn't the exact time
in order for Paul to go into that place.
In fact, as you study the word of God,
you'll find as you read in Acts 19,
and you don't need to go over there,
but you'll find that all of those in Asia
heard the word of the Lord,
but not at this time.
Notice in verse number seven,
after they were come to Mysia,
they assayed to go into Bithynia,
but the Spirit suffered them not.
And they passing by Mysia came down to Troas,
and a vision appeared to Paul in the night.
There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him,
saying, come over into Macedonia and help us.
And after he had seen the vision,
immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia,
assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us
for to preach the gospel unto them.
There was divine direction
because there was a heart of obedience.
There was a desire on the part of the Apostle Paul
to do the specific will of God.
He wasn't just going and doing what he wanted to do.
He wasn't just looking for a place of comfort,
a place of ease.
He wasn't saying to God,
I'll serve you, God, in these locations,
but that's it, and it's on my terms.
No, serving God is on His terms.
What is His will?
And we get into the Bible
and we understand His general will for us,
and we're doing generally what He's revealed in His Word
with regard to His will.
And then we say, God, what do You want for me specifically?
Lord, I'm Yours.
You bought me with a price,
and I want to glorify You in my life and with my life,
and I want to do what You want me to do
without any reservations.
I believe that God will answer that prayer.
We understand that in Acts 16,
God gave him a vision
because the whole canon of Scripture
has not yet been written at that particular time.
And God will answer your prayers.
He'll use circumstances and He'll use events.
He'll use people.
And what a blessing to see how God opens doors
and to see how God reveals His will.
He says this in verse number nine,
that you might be filled with the knowledge of His will
in all wisdom and spiritual understanding.
Now, in light of the false teachers,
we understand that it would not be the will of God
for these people to forsake the faithful teaching
that they had been given from Epaphras
as their faithful minister
and follow after these false teachers.
That's not the will of God.
Because the teaching, the instruction must line up
as we would say today in 2021 with the Word of God.
We better be careful about knowing the will of God.
Not only does Paul pray that they would know the will of God,
but as we move into verse number 10,
we find that he prays that they would do the will of God.
Oh, that's the proper progression, by the way.
If you know the will of God,
you better be doing the will of God.
A heart of obedience.
The Bible says this in verse number 10,
that ye might walk worthy of the Lord
unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work,
and increasing in the knowledge of God.
So in verse number nine,
the prayer of Paul for these believers in Colossae
is that they would know the will of God.
In verse number 10, it's that they would do the will of God,
that they would be obedient,
that they would be, as James says in James 1 in verse 22,
not that we'd just be hearers of the Word,
but that we'd be doers of the Word.
That we would do the will of God.
You know when we do the will of God, it pleases God.
It's obedience.
God is always pleased with obedience.
Let me say this, if we know the will of God
and deliberately disobey what God has revealed to us to do,
we are in some dangerous territory.
We are on, as people like to use the expression, thin ice.
See, God reveals His will, and then we do His will.
Walk that ye might walk worthy of the Lord.
Notice it says unto all pleasing,
that I might please Him,
that I might be accepted in His sight,
that He might be pleased with my service for Him.
Why?
Because He's revealed to me what His will is,
and I'm doing the will of God.
Notice what Jesus said in John chapter number 13.
We'll look at chapter 15 in just a moment,
but look at John chapter number 13, if you will.
In John chapter number 13 and verse number 17.
Look at what the Lord Jesus Christ says
with regard to doing the will of God.
He says this in John 13 and verse number 17.
If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them.
We understand that oftentimes that word happy is often,
is also translated as blessed.
And we think about the blessing of the Lord.
See, He's speaking to them
about service in John 13.
It's the passage of Scripture
in which Jesus washed the feet of the disciples.
And He's revealing to them
this important aspect of service
and understanding that the servant
is not greater than his Lord
and so on and so forth.
And He gave them an example
that you should do as I have done to you
is what He says in v. 15.
And then He says,
if you know these things,
happy or blessed are ye if you do them.
It's not just knowing it
that makes us happy or blessed.
Well, I know the will of God for my life.
Are you doing it?
Paul is praying for these believers in Colossae
that they would know the will of God
and then that they would do the will of God.
In 1 Thessalonians 4,
you don't need to turn there,
but in verse number one,
Paul says this to the believers in Thessalonica.
He says, furthermore,
then we beseech you, brethren,
and exhort you by the Lord Jesus
that as ye have received of us
how ye ought to walk and to please God.
So that would be the general will
for these believers in Thessalonica.
That you have received of us
how you ought to walk and to please God.
This is the general will
for the church of the Thessalonians.
The church in Thessalonica.
And we understand that
if it's the general will for this church,
that the things that we would study and understand,
it would be the general will for us as well.
And it says this,
so ye would abound more and more.
See, when God reveals His will to us,
He's revealing to us that we might please Him.
He continues in this same passage
in 1 Thessalonians 4 and says this in verse 3,
for this is the will of God.
Now when you read something like that,
you ought to pay close attention.
Right?
This is the general will of God for you.
This is God's will for you,
even your sanctification,
that ye should abstain from fornication.
I'm not going to get off track this morning
with the content of our message,
but you see that God reveals His general will
for His people.
And then we do His will.
Doing the will of God not only pleases Him,
but doing the will of God produces fruit.
It enables us to bear fruit.
Notice in verse number 10 back in Colossians 1,
that ye might walk worthy of the Lord
unto all pleasing.
Notice this,
being fruitful in every good work
and increasing in the knowledge of God.
And we'll get to that last statement in just a moment.
But we notice where it says,
being fruitful in every good work,
you know that God's will is that we would bear fruit.
That we would be fruitful.
John chapter number 15,
I mentioned that we would look there in just a moment.
We're actually going to look there
a couple of times this morning.
So if you have an extra bookmark,
you might want to put it there.
But in John chapter number 15,
you look through and you see about the bearing of fruit
and so on and so forth.
In verse number seven,
it says if you abide in me and my words abide in you,
you shall ask what you will
and it shall be done unto you.
Herein is my Father glorified that you bear much fruit.
So shall you be my disciples.
God is glorified when we bear fruit.
We're to be fruit bearing Christians.
And when we're doing his will,
it says this,
being fruitful in every good work.
Wow, what a blessing.
And then it says this,
and increasing in the knowledge of God.
You know that as God reveals truth to you
and you respond in obedience,
that God's going to reveal more to you.
It's an awesome truth that we find
in the pages of Scripture.
Paul says that I may know him,
the power of his resurrection,
there in the book of Philippians.
And as we would think about Paul saying that,
he says that I may know him
and the power of his resurrection
and the fellowship of his sufferings
being made conformable unto his death.
As Paul would walk in obedience to the Lord,
the Lord would continue to reveal more truth
and a greater knowledge of who God is.
You understand that we'll never have
a complete knowledge of who God is
until we see him face to face.
The reality is that he transcends us.
His ways are not our ways.
His thoughts are not our thoughts.
He is so much greater and so much higher than we are.
I've often said to people over the years
that you get in your mind
the greatest way in which you can understand God
and he's far beyond your greatest ability
to comprehend.
But it says here, increasing in the knowledge of God.
You know that I know more about God today
than I did 20 years ago.
I do, why?
Not to pat myself on the back,
but just to tell you the way that it works biblically
is that God has revealed some things to me about his will
and I've sought to obey those things.
I've sought to do the will of God,
not to just know it, but to do it.
And as I have walked with God
and as I have served God,
he's revealed more things to me about who he is
and what he's able to do.
I have a greater knowledge of God today
than I did 20 years ago.
I hope that you would look at your spiritual journey.
I hope that you'd look at your walk with Christ
and that you would be able to say,
I have a greater knowledge of God today
than I did a year ago.
That we do some evaluations in our lives.
Why is that that I have a greater knowledge of God?
Well, if I look back over the last year,
I would see that I was walking with God
and I was serving God
and I was doing his will in my life
and then God reveals more of who he is.
That's how Paul's praying for these believers.
He says this in verse number 11.
He's praying that they would have divine strength.
Notice, strengthened with all might
according to his glorious power.
We'll look at the last phrase in just a moment,
but you understand what he's saying
and I'm looking at this as this divine strength.
Maybe I could call it this, that divine ability.
You understand this morning
that we cannot do the will of God
if we do not know the will of God.
That's why Paul first prays that they would know it
and then he prays that they would do it,
but here's the reality.
Not only am I not able to do the will of God
if I don't know the will of God,
but the reality is that I need his enabling
in order to do his will.
I can't do it in my own strength.
I can't do it in my own power
and neither can you.
It's not through my strength or through my power,
but it's through his Spirit.
We read that in Zechariah 4 in verse number six
and we understand as we've mentioned already
that passage in John chapter number 15
about bearing fruit,
but in verse number five of John chapter number 15,
the Lord Jesus Christ said this,
I am the vine,
ye are the branches.
He that abideth in me and I in him,
the same bringeth forth much fruit,
for without me ye can do nothing.
If I don't know the will of God,
I can't do the will of God.
If I know the will of God
and I desire to do the will of God,
I need to be strengthened,
I need to be enabled with his power to do his will.
Thus, Paul is praying for these believers in Colossae
that they would know the will of God,
that they would do the will of God
and that they would have divine strength or ability.
The Bible says in Acts 1 in verse number eight,
but you shall receive power
after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you
and ye shall be witnesses unto me
both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria
and into the uttermost part of the earth.
And you understand that the reality
is that they stayed in that upper room
until they were endued with power.
It was not appropriate for them to leave
and try to go do the will of God,
the work of God without having the enabling of God.
The disciples prayed in Acts 4 in verse number 29
that God would grant them boldness to speak thy word.
Was it God's will for them to speak the word of God?
Absolutely.
But they understood that they needed Holy Spirit boldness
and power to be able to do the will of God.
Oh, this morning we need the power of God.
We need his power to rest upon us.
So Paul, as we look at this passage of Scripture,
we first consider how Paul prayed.
The spiritual aspect of his prayer.
The knowledge that he had that we dealt with
by way of introduction,
no doubt influenced the manner in which he prayed.
The things that he prayed for,
he prayed that they would know the will of God.
They would do the will of God.
And that they would have the strength,
that divine strength as they would serve God.
James said this,
for him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not,
to him it is sin.
If you know the will of God and you refuse to do it,
you need to ask God to forgive you.
You need to confess it as being sin.
Say, God, forgive me.
And he will.
He is faithful and just.
And I'm so thankful for that.
If we confess our sins,
he's promised that he would give us forgiveness.
With thee, the psalmist said, there is forgiveness.
Our God is ready to pardon, ready to forgive.
But if you know the will of God and you're not doing it,
oh, would you get that right with God?
Not only confess it as being sin,
but pray and ask God to help you to do his will.
You know, there's no greater joy
than doing the will of God.
Honestly, there's no greater joy
than knowing the will of God and doing the will of God.
I'm not pretending, I'm not trying to just make you think.
a certain way, I'm being completely transparent and honest with you. There is a joy in doing
the will of God that far surpasses anything else that this world ever has to offer. So
therefore, Paul prays that they would know the will of God, they would do the will of
God, and they would do it with divine strength or ability. Notice not only as we consider
what Paul prayed, or how Paul prayed, we also consider what is produced. I would say this,
as we look at 11 through 14, that really as we would look at this aspect of what is produced,
I would say it this way, these are the results of the request of the Apostle Paul. As he's
praying this way, as he's expecting God to answer these prayers, as he's expecting these
believers in Colossae to be obedient and to do the will of God, this is what's going
to be produced. This is what the result is going to be. You understand that if I pray
that God would reveal His will, that you as a child of God would know the will of God,
that that's a prayer that God desires to answer. And as you would pray for yourself, that God,
would you make known to me your will, and you have other brothers and sisters that are
interceding on your behalf for that request, that God will answer that and it produces some things.
See, Paul understood as he's praying that this is not some rote religious activity. He's praying
to the God of the universe, and he's expecting that God's going to work. He's praying in faith,
believing. Notice what is produced. Number one, I would say this, spiritual maturity. That's what
the whole aspect of this prayer has been. We've mentioned it often throughout the message already,
as we would know the will of God and do the will of God, that this spiritual maturity is
produced in the child of God. These believers in Colossae that have been saved and that have
been discipled, Paul is praying that they would mature spiritually, and we understand that that
spiritual maturity is seen through what is mentioned in the end of verse number 11. Notice,
I'll read the entire verse, strengthened with all might according to His glorious power, but then we
begin to see this answer, this spiritual maturity, that which is produced. It says at the end of verse
number 11, unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. Let's look at those three words.
Patience, long-suffering, and then he says joyfulness. So we think about this spiritual
maturity. It's evidenced through patience. You say, I don't have any patience. And you say,
somebody yesterday or somebody some time ago told me that I shouldn't pray for patience,
because if I pray for patience, that means God's going to give me trials. I've heard that said over
the years, and the reality is that this word patience, it carries with it the idea of endurance.
It carries with it the idea of steadfastness. And really, when we think about this patience
that is mentioned in verse number 11, it really is geared more towards patience in circumstances.
Now, before you get excited and think that that means you don't have to have patience with people,
just put your seatbelt on. We'll be there in just a moment. But first, he deals with patience,
endurance, steadfastness in our circumstances. You know, sometimes those circumstances,
we are so much in a hurry to get those over with that we miss the spiritual lesson,
that we miss the purpose that God has in that circumstance, in that situation.
Notice, you'll recall with me a great truth from 1 Corinthians 15 in verse number 58.
Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast. Right? Remember, I said that word patience,
it has the idea of endurance, it has the idea of steadfastness. Be steadfast, unmovable,
always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain
in the Lord. See, as you know the will of God and you purpose to do the will of God through the
enabling of God, it doesn't mean that the enemy is going to go retreat somewhere and say,
hey, they know God's will and they've purposed to do it, so I'm going to leave them alone.
No, no, no, no. He's going to just up the attack. So we've got to have patience,
we've got to have endurance and steadfastness. What did Paul say
as he's writing? I believe I know all year last year I wrote when I studied and taught through
the book of Hebrews, I refrained from using an author, humanly speaking. I believe Paul wrote
the book of Hebrews. If you don't, that's okay, we can disagree. There's no authorship that's
notated. But notice what is said in Hebrews 12. We used verse number two of Hebrews 12 as our
theme for last year, looking unto Jesus. But in verse number one of Hebrews 12, the Bible says,
we're foreseeing we also are encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses.
Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with
patience the race that is set before us. That's a result of, or an evidence, excuse me,
that is an evidence of spiritual maturity. That patience, that endurance, that steadfastness,
then he goes and he says back in Colossians chapter number one,
verse 11, unto all patience and longsuffering. The word longsuffering carries with it the idea
of being slow to wrath, patience of offense. This is where we see the longsuffering as it relates
really to people. Patience relating more to circumstances, and longsuffering relating more
to people. Slow to wrath, patience of offense, not looking to get or seek revenge, but having
that longsuffering. I'm thankful that God has longsuffering. I mean, honestly.
There are many times in our lives that we have experienced the longsuffering of God.
There are times in our lives when we might look at some situation and say,
I'm not sure why God doesn't judge them, but I'll tell you that in your life and in my life,
I'm happy and thankful for the longsuffering of God. And God's longsuffering with people,
and this evidence of spiritual maturity, that which is produced the result of the prayer of
the Apostle Paul, is that they would have patience, that they would have endurance and
steadfastness in the circumstances in which they would face, that they would have longsuffering,
that they would be slow to wrath, that they would have patience of offense with regard to people.
And then the Bible says this, with joyfulness, with joyfulness,
joyfulness, the idea of fullness of joy. We've often said that joy and happiness are similar,
but they're also very different because oftentimes happiness is dependent upon our happenings,
the things that are going on. But as we understand the truth of the Word of God,
that we can have a joy that's not based upon my circumstances or my happenings.
I can be in the midst of a great difficulty and yet have great joy.
If I were to ask you this morning, which book of the Bible would you go to in the New Testament
to think about that which deals with in the greatest aspect of joy, rejoicing,
joyfulness? Brianna's lipping, wording to me, Philippians. Yeah, Philippians.
That's what I would say as well. Where was Paul? Prison. His circumstances weren't great,
but he had joy. He had joy. I love the little song. I don't remember all the words. It's kind
of a common occurrence for me, actually. The little song goes this way, at least part of it,
that we would sing with children. I remember years and years ago in children's church singing
with kids, I've got joy down in my heart. Deep, deep down in my heart. J-O-Y down in my heart.
Then it would say something on this matter of Jesus gave it to me and nothing can destroy it.
And I remember doing with those little kids as we'd have children's church, I can see it in my
mind's eye of the building that I was in and seeing those kids in front of me that are now adults
and saying it's deep, deep down in my heart. Jesus gave it to me and nothing we would do
that with the kids can destroy it. Listen, no man can take your joy. We have to give it up.
Spiritual maturity is evidenced through patience and long-suffering and joyfulness. Not only
do we see what is produced as being spiritual maturity, but I also see that what's being
produced is a spirit of gratitude. Notice in verse number 12, giving thanks unto the Father.
Giving thanks unto the Father. Why is it
that the Apostle Paul would mention here,
what is the subject, if you will,
the reason for giving thanks?
Well, broadly speaking,
with one word, we'd say redemption.
That's the reason in these verses of Scripture.
And I would say this,
you are thankful for your salvation
that it will lead to you having a spirit of gratitude
in other areas of your life as well.
We must never get over our salvation.
We must never cease to thank God
for what He did in saving our souls.
Consider what He's done for you.
Notice, as he would use a number of phraseologies
in order to describe this subject matter of redemption,
he says, giving thanks unto the Father.
Notice in v. 12, the first aspect, if you will,
which hath made us meet to be partakers
of the inheritance of the saints in light.
Now, this is a great phrase, a great statement,
a great truth of the Word of God.
I want you to really focus upon where it says there,
which hath made us meet to be partakers.
You know, that word meet
carries with it the idea of being qualified.
Being qualified.
What am I qualified for?
Well, it says this,
to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light.
God has made me qualified for heaven.
Can you imagine?
This is amazing as we would begin to think about
what Paul is communicating
and the way in which we would pause
and just think about how He's made us meet,
that He's made us qualified for heaven.
Listen, you can't qualify yourself for heaven,
and I can't qualify myself for heaven,
but God can qualify us for heaven.
2 Corinthians 5 and verse 21,
for He, speaking of God the Father,
hath made Him, speaking of God the Son,
to be sin for us who knew no sin,
that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him.
The imputed righteousness of Christ.
I can't make myself qualified for heaven
and neither can you.
Mr. Black that wrote that song
that we started the service with this morning,
when he said,
when the roll is caught up yonder, I'll be there.
He didn't qualify himself for heaven,
but he understood that the Son of God
came to this incursed world.
He bled and died.
He paid the ultimate price and He saved His soul.
Thus, He was qualified for heaven.
He hath made us meet to be partakers
of the inheritance of the saints in light.
Not only that, look at the next phrase in verse number 13.
Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness.
Now you understand that there is a power of darkness.
The spirit of iniquity doth already work,
and we see that as Paul would write
to the believers in Thessalonica,
and he says in 2 Thessalonians 2, in verse number 7,
for the mystery of iniquity doth already work.
We understand that the Bible teaches
and gives us truth with regard to the way
in which we were bound in our sin.
The Bible tells us how the God of this world,
the little g God of this world,
the enemy, Satan, Lucifer,
that he hath blinded the minds of them which believe not.
Listen, there is a power of darkness,
but Paul said this in Ephesians chapter number 2,
when he spoke about that power of darkness,
he says in Ephesians 2, in verse number 1,
and you hath he quickened
who were dead in trespass and sins,
wherein in time past you walked
according to the course of this world,
according to the prince of the power of the air,
the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience,
among whom also we all had our conversation in times past,
in the lust of our flesh,
fulfilling the desire of the flesh and of the mind,
and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others,
but God, who is rich in mercy,
for his great love wherewith he loved us.
He says to these believers in Colossae,
he says, listen, you need to remember
that he hath delivered us from the power of darkness.
Paul, he was delivered from the power of darkness.
These saints that he's writing to,
these faithful brethren in Colossae,
they had been delivered from the power of darkness.
Notice the next phrase at the end of verse number 13.
And hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son.
Listen, there was a transaction that took place
on the day in which you trust at Christ as your Savior.
There was a transaction that took place in my life
on August 31st, 1997.
It was a transaction that I understand more about today
than I did then.
But there was a transaction that took place.
No longer was I going to go and spend eternity
in the lake of fire because of my sin,
because I had no Savior.
But there was a transaction that was made.
As the songwriter said, the old account was settled
long ago, right?
He spoke about his day of conversion.
And now in a moment, the miracle of salvation,
my home is heaven.
I've been translated into the kingdom of his dear Son.
A great transaction that took place.
I use the term transaction as it says here,
that and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son
because a transaction would be a term
that would help us to understand that which was accomplished
on the day of our salvation.
Of course, understanding that for us,
a couple of thousand years prior to the day of our salvation
is when the blood was shed, when the payment was made.
But we understand the wages of sin is death.
But the gift of God is eternal life
through Jesus Christ, our Lord.
And there was a payment that was made,
a transaction that was completed.
We were translated into the kingdom of his dear Son.
We were delivered from the power of darkness
and translated into the kingdom of his dear Son.
It's an amazing transaction.
It's a supernatural transaction.
You understand that salvation is not a process.
Salvation is the miracle of a moment.
The Bible says that you must be born again.
And it's in that moment that we're translated,
we're delivered from the power of darkness,
we're translated into the kingdom of his Son.
Oh, what a blessing!
Verse 14, the fourth statement.
In whom we have redemption through his blood,
through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins.
In whom we have redemption.
I'm thankful for that word redemption.
I've been bought.
But how is it that we have redemption?
Those three precious words that are so vital,
through his blood.
Ephesians 1 deals with the plan of redemption,
also deals with the price of redemption.
The precious blood of Christ.
In the book of 1 Peter, we will understand the truth
that we were redeemed.
Notice this is what Peter says in 1 Peter 1,
in verse number 18.
For as much as you know that you were not redeemed
with corruptible things as silver and gold
from your vain conversation received by tradition
from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ,
the blood of a lamb without blemish and without spot.
I'm so thankful for the precious blood of Christ.
I was redeemed with his blood.
You know those three words through his blood are vital.
Because that's the only way for someone to be redeemed.
Redeemed how I love to proclaim it.
Redeemed by the blood of the lamb.
Right, is that what the songwriter said?
Bible, Bible truth in that great hymn of the faith.
You know that the enemy,
this is just a side note this morning,
but for what it's worth, you get a little extra.
You're not here, so you don't have to have
extra time to cook.
And so therefore I give you a little extra this morning.
The enemy is attacking the word of God.
He has from Genesis chapter number three.
When he said this, yea, hath God said.
You know the Bible is under attack
from that day until this.
I looked up yesterday, I knew that a number
of the modern translations had attacked
this particular verse of scripture.
I did not know how many of them.
But I looked up a number of them yesterday.
I will say this, I don't have any of them in my office.
I had to look them up on the internet.
The NIV, the New American Standard Bible,
the Revised Standard Version,
the New Revised Standard Version,
the New Living Translation,
the English Standard Version.
Those were the six that I looked at in particular.
Every one of them has removed those three words
through His blood.
And they would read, in whom we have redemption,
even the forgiveness of sins.
How do we have redemption?
Through the blood!
There's no other way!
We preach the blood, the book, the prophet,
or the blessed hope.
We understand the importance.
the importance, the significance of the blood.
You look at the Old Testament
and all of the sacrifices
and all the blood that would point to Messiah Christ
who would one day come
and make one perfect offering
for sin forever.
And it was the precious blood of Christ.
And oh, how the enemy is attacking
the Word of God.
This morning, I would encourage you
to be careful of the modern translations.
I've taught many lessons
on this pulpit
on the reason in which we use the King James Bible.
If you'd like to have any of those,
let me know. I'd be happy to share those with you.
But the modern translations are being attacked
by the enemy.
And in this verse of Scripture,
they remove the blood.
Oh, I hope that we would be careful.
Do not buy the lie of the enemy
that says, well, these modern translations
are just easier to understand.
It's not true.
And here's the amazing thing.
If you've been born again,
the Spirit of God lives within you
and He is the divine teacher.
And so when you come to a passage of Scripture
that you don't understand,
you say, Holy Spirit that lives within me,
teach me Thy Word!
And He will.
He will.
We said it a moment ago,
that being thankful for your salvation
will lead to a spirit of gratitude
in other areas of your life.
We understand that Paul would say this
to the believers in Thessalonica
in 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 18.
In everything, give thanks.
And then notice this phrase.
For this is the will of God
in Christ Jesus concerning you.
Now, remember the entirety of this prayer.
Isn't it amazing how it just kind of
packages real nice?
I mean, it's got a bow on it for us.
Paul, in one of his earlier works,
speaks about the spirit of gratitude.
He says, I'm praying that you would know
the will of God, and then as you know
the will of God, that you would do
the will of God through His enabling.
It's not in your own strength.
It's in His strength.
And here's what will be produced
that you will have this spiritual maturity
that will be evidenced through patience
and long suffering.
And it will be evidenced through the joy
that you have.
And he says that you'll have a spirit
of gratitude first and foremost
for your salvation because of what
He did for you and how He saved your soul.
That transaction that was completed.
And then, that you'll have this spirit
of gratitude that will then kind of
convey over into other areas of your life,
which by the way, is the will of God.
That we'd give thanks for all things.
In everything, give thanks.
For this is the will of God
in Christ Jesus concerning you.
You say, I have a hard time giving thanks
for everything, in everything,
for all things.
Ask God to help you.
I don't like this thing.
I don't like what's going on.
I'm not happy with this.
Is God sovereign or not?
Is God still on His throne
or is somebody taking His place?
No, He is still in control.
He is the Lord God omnipotent.
He rules and He reigns.
He is King of kings and Lord of lords.
Therefore, we're able to give thanks
in everything.
Understanding this is the will of God for us.
Aren't you happy that God gave us a Bible?
And revealed to us His general will
for His people?
What was one of the things?
I mean, I know there are many things
that the children of Israel were guilty of,
but one of them was murmuring
and complaining all of the time.
God wasn't pleased with that.
And still today, God's not pleased
when we murmur and complain.
We're to be thankful.
The spirit of gratitude
is produced in the believer
that is growing spiritually.
This morning, as I mentioned before,
we got into the points.
I wonder if we would take some time
and evaluate our prayer life.
And as we evaluate our prayer life,
that we would evaluate it
in light of the example in Scripture.
I'm not saying to you this morning
that you should not pray
for the physical needs of others.
You should.
But what I'm asking you is,
is that all that you're praying for?
If you evaluate your prayer life,
is there anything that's spiritual?
Are you praying for the spiritual growth
of yourself, of others,
as we think about intercessory prayer in particular?
You're praying for others to grow in grace
and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
That in the time of difficulty,
adversity, in the storm,
that they would grow spiritually.
That they would understand that God is faithful.
That God is dependable, trustworthy.
That He never makes a mistake.
That His way is perfect.
And that we would learn those things.
Oh, this morning, I hope that we've been encouraged
by the way in which Paul prayed
for these believers in Colossae.
But I also pray that we've been challenged
to evaluate our own prayer lives.
Evaluate them in light of Scripture.
Let's pray.
Father, we love You this morning.
We thank You so much for loving us.
We thank You for the Word of God.
We thank You for the prayer of Paul
for the Colossians.
Thank You that You've recorded it in Your Word
that we can look at it and read it
and dissect it and be challenged by it.
Be encouraged by it.
Lord, I pray this morning that if there's one
that does not know You
as their personal Lord and Savior,
that transaction that we spoke of,
those statements that were made...